Document automatic code coverage report flags (#38595)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/code_coverage/setup.md

If you wish to gate on PR coverage, you can configure PR Gates rules in one of two ways:

- **Datadog UI**: Navigate to [PR Gates rule creation][5] and configure a rule to gate on total or patch coverage.
- **YAML configuration file**: Define gates in your [`code-coverage.datadog.yml`][6] file. This allows you to manage gates as code alongside your repository.

Rules from both sources are evaluated when a pull request is opened or updated. See [Configuration][6] for YAML gate syntax and examples.

## Upload code coverage reports

> Upload code coverage report files to Datadog either automatically with a supported Test Optimization library or by running the `datadog-ci` CLI in your CI environment.

Reviewer: Broken parallel structure: "automatically with a supported Test Optimization library" is an adverb plus prepositional phrase, while "by running the `datadog-ci` CLI" is a gerund phrase. They can't share the `either...or`.

```suggestion
Upload code coverage report files to Datadog either automatically, with a supported Test Optimization library, or manually, by running the `datadog-ci` CLI in your CI environment.
```

See [Data Collected][7] for details on what data is collected during code coverage report upload.

### Upload reports automatically with Test Optimization

#### Supported libraries and versions

Automatic code coverage report upload is supported in the following Test Optimization library versions:

| Library | First supported version | Coverage source |
|---|---|---|
| Ruby `datadog-ci` | `1.27.0` | SimpleCov |
| JavaScript `dd-trace` 5.x | `5.85.0` | Jest, Vitest, or NYC coverage |
| JavaScript `dd-trace` 6.x | `6.0.0` | Jest, Vitest, or NYC coverage |
| Python `ddtrace` | `4.4.0` | Default pytest plugin using `coverage.py` |
| Java `dd-java-agent` | `1.53.0` | JaCoCo |

> These version requirements apply only to automatic uploads by Test Optimization libraries. The manual [`datadog-ci coverage upload`](#uploading-coverage-reports) command was introduced as beta in `datadog-ci` v3.0.0 and left beta in v3.4.0.

Reviewer: The first sentence is a useful scoping clarification. The second is `datadog-ci` release history dropped into a section about *library* automatic uploads. It answers a question the reader doesn't have at this point. I'd cut it, or move it down to "Uploading coverage reports" where it's relevant.

If it stays, "became generally available in v3.4.0" reads better than "left beta in v3.4.0" 

Separately: `(#uploading-coverage-reports)` is an inline link, while the rest of this file uses reference-style links. Worth keeping consistent.

Author: Removed the manual datadog-ci release-history sentence from the automatic-upload section in a3673f7b36. The remaining sentence now scopes the version requirements to automatic library uploads.

#### Enable automatic uploads

Complete the [Test Optimization setup][17] for your library before enabling automatic uploads.

> The versions listed above contain the uploader code, but reports are uploaded only when the library receives the `coverage_report_upload_enabled` setting. Enable this setting by turning on {{< ui >}}Code Coverage{{< /ui >}} in [{{< ui >}}CI/CD Optimization settings{{< /ui >}}][8].

Reviewer: Two things here.

"listed above" is directional language. Our editorial guidelines call for "the preceding" / "the following" instead, and directional references break when content is chunked for AI retrieval.

More substantively, `coverage_report_upload_enabled` reads as an internal implementation detail. "Contain the uploader code" describes the product's internals rather than what the reader does, and a reader can't set `coverage_report_upload_enabled` themselves. It arrives via remote config when they flip the UI toggle. Naming it here invites people to try setting it as an environment variable and then file a ticket when nothing happens.

Does the reader need that key name? If it surfaces somewhere they'd recognize it (a debug log line, a config dump), keeping it is justified and worth saying where they'd see it. Otherwise:

```suggestion
Upgrading to a supported version is necessary but not sufficient. Reports are uploaded only after you turn on {{< ui >}}Code Coverage{{< /ui >}} in [{{< ui >}}CI/CD Optimization settings{{< /ui >}}][8].
```

> {{< img src="/code_coverage/automatic_code_coverage_upload_setting.png" alt="Code Coverage toggle in organization-level CI/CD Optimization settings" style="width:100%" >}}

Reviewer: Alt text must end with a period.

```suggestion
{{< img src="/code_coverage/automatic_code_coverage_upload_setting.png" alt="Code Coverage toggle in organization-level CI/CD Optimization settings." style="width:100%" >}}
```

> You can apply the setting at the organization, repository, or test service level. Run a test command that produces a code coverage report using the source listed in the table. After the command finishes, the Test Optimization library automatically uploads the report to Datadog.

Reviewer: This paragraph packs three unrelated ideas together: which scope levels the setting applies at, run a test command, and the library uploads afterward. Since this section answers "how do I turn this on," the editorial guidance is that configuration sections with sequential steps use a numbered list.

"the source listed in the table" is also a vague backreference — there's no table in this subsection anymore, so "the table" is ambiguous.

```suggestion
You can apply the setting at the organization, repository, or test service level.

1. Complete the [Test Optimization setup][17] for your library.
2. Upgrade to a supported library version.
3. Turn on {{< ui >}}Code Coverage{{< /ui >}} in [{{< ui >}}CI/CD Optimization settings{{< /ui >}}][8].
4. Run a test command that produces a coverage report from the source listed in [Supported libraries and versions](#supported-libraries-and-versions).

The library uploads the report to Datadog after the command finishes.
```

Note this overlaps with my comment on line 123. If you take the numbered-list version, fold the "necessary but not sufficient" point into step 3 rather than keeping both.

> To organize and filter reports uploaded by the library, see [Add flags to automatically uploaded reports][9] for `DD_CODE_COVERAGE_FLAGS` library and version support.

Reviewer: Noun cluster: "`DD_CODE_COVERAGE_FLAGS` library and version support" strings three-plus nouns together. The editorial reference asks for prepositions to break these up.

```suggestion
To organize and filter reports uploaded by the library, see [Add flags to automatically uploaded reports][9], which lists the libraries and versions that support `DD_CODE_COVERAGE_FLAGS`.
```

- **YAML configuration file**: Define gates in your [`code-coverage.datadog.yml`][6] file. This allows you to manage gates as code alongside your repository.

Rules from both sources are evaluated when a pull request is opened or updated. See [Configuration][6] for YAML gate syntax and examples.

## Upload code coverage reports

Upload code coverage report files to Datadog automatically with a supported Test Optimization library or by running the `datadog-ci` CLI in your CI environment.

See [Data Collected][7] for details on what data is collected during code coverage report upload.

### Upload reports automatically with Test Optimization

[Supported Test Optimization libraries][8] can upload code coverage reports without a separate `datadog-ci` step:

1. Enable code coverage upload in [{{< ui >}}CI/CD Optimization settings{{< /ui >}}][9]. You can apply the setting at the organization, repository, or test service level.
2. Run your tests with a supported coverage tool. The Test Optimization library uploads the report after the test session ends.

To organize and filter reports uploaded by the library, see [Add flags to coverage reports][10].

### Upload reports with the CLI

> Use `datadog-ci` to upload reports directly from your CI pipeline.

Author: Applied in `a32ec1bd51` with a simpler structure: I removed the redundant **Upload reports with the CLI** heading and its one-line bridge. The existing supported-format, installation, and upload sections remain peer sections and already make the CLI path clear.

<div class="alert alert-info">If you use GitHub Actions, you can skip this installation step. The <a href="#uploading-coverage-reports">GitHub Actions upload method</a> below uses a dedicated action that handles <code>datadog-ci</code> installation automatically.</div>

> Standalone binaries are provided with [Datadog CI releases][10]. The _linux-x64_, _linux-arm64_, _darwin-x64_, _darwin-arm64_ (MacOS), and _win-x64_ (Windows) architectures are supported. To install, run the following from your terminal:

Reviewer: `MacOS` should be `macOS` (Apple's own capitalization). Pre-existing text, but this line is modified in the diff.

Author: Updated both the architecture label and the tab title from MacOS to macOS in a3673f7b36.

### Coverage upload outputs "Could not sync git metadata" error

Git metadata upload is only required if you can't integrate your CI provider directly with Datadog.

> If you are using a [source code provider integration](#integrate-with-source-code-provider), such as Datadog GitHub app or Gitlab integration, you can disable the git metadata upload by passing the `--skip-git-metadata-upload=1` flag to the `datadog-ci coverage upload` command, like this:

Author: Not applied. The repository formatter intentionally excludes fragment-only `#…` links from reference conversion, so `[source code provider integration](#integrate-with-source-code-provider)` is the enforced format here. Adding `[18]` would be converted back by the formatter and pre-commit hook.

### Coverage upload outputs "Could not sync git metadata" error

Git metadata upload is only required if you can't integrate your CI provider directly with Datadog.

> If you are using a [source code provider integration](#integrate-with-source-code-provider), such as Datadog GitHub app or Gitlab integration, you can disable the git metadata upload by passing the `--skip-git-metadata-upload=1` flag to the `datadog-ci coverage upload` command, like this:

Reviewer: This replaces what was a proper reference link (`[12]`) with an inline anchor link. The rest of the file uses reference style, so worth keeping consistent.

```suggestion
If you are using a [source code provider integration][18], such as Datadog GitHub app or Gitlab integration, you can disable the git metadata upload by passing the `--skip-git-metadata-upload=1` flag to the `datadog-ci coverage upload` command, like this:
```

(Would need a matching `[18]: #integrate-with-source-code-provider` definition at the bottom.)
